# Magnetic Repulsion Generator Construction Instructions

Use of these construction instructions may be restricted by licensing agreements and fees.  These constructions instructions are provided on the condition that no risk or liability is ever in any way attributable to the inventor, author, or contributors to these construction instructions.

OVERVIEW

The magnetic repulsion unit provides for clean continuous portable self-contained physics powered propulsion and electricity generation, utilizing repulsive magnetic fields, where a first structure holding magnetic fields is able to be engaged inside or around a complimentary second structure holding magnetic fields, with magnetic fields angled, spaced, and shielded to allow one or both structures to spin continuously, where speed and force may be determined by percent the two structures are engaged, with the structures rotation in turn providing electricity generator axle rotation and or providing the propulsion of a traditional motor. The invention permanently solves global warming, provides reduced cost of living and cost of goods to alleviate poverty, provides unlimited clean energy for evaporated water purification and atmospheric carbon dioxide splitting, and eliminates the need for every other method of energy production, including nuclear technology – thus reducing nuclear weapons technology proliferation.

ILLUSTRATIONS

FIG. 1 is an illustration of an example of an embodiment, with a rotatable magnet structure inside a rotationally fixed outer magnet structure, with all magnets angled, spaced, and insulated, to provide magnetic repulsion to rotate one of the magnet structures to spin an electricity generator and or motor axle.

FIG. 1A is an illustration of a magnified view of part of the magnetic fields of a pair of magnets in FIG. 1.
 
FIG. 2 is an illustration of an example of an embodiment of a pattern which may be used to form insulation material that directs a magnetic field.
DETAILED DESCRIPTION

Step 1: given the desired output of the motor and or generator, select and obtain corresponding magnets, and generator if used.  the magnet structures are designed to support the magnets, and the magnets are selected to correspond to desired unit output, where sizes and types of magnets may vary upon factors including availability from magnet manufacturers and cost.  In some embodiments, when implementing the motor and the generator, because the generator may optimally require a fixed rotational speed, it may be best to create each as a separate unit.

In reference to FIG. 1, because magnets may slowly have their field strength degraded when facing an opposing magnetic field for an extended of period of time, magnets are used to the extent practically possible that were manufactured to have the highest possible magnetic coercivity, meaning that the mix of materials used, and the manufacturing process, have made it as difficult as possible for a magnet to lose its directional force, by means which may include using specific materials and aligning material directional polarities prior to baking.  Neodymium permanent magnets may be used.  In some embodiments, Samarium-Cobalt magnets may be used, which may be four times as resistant to magnetic coercivity as Neodymium, but are significantly more expensive. In some embodiments, iron nitride permanent magnets may be used, produced utilizing abundant inexpensive iron, rather than rare earth metals, but such magnets are not broadly available at the time of disclosure.  In some embodiments, substantially less expensive ferrite magnets may be used, which lose their directional force faster than standard permanent magnets.  In some embodiments, other compositions, types, numbers, and sizes of magnets may be used.  In some embodiments, which may include one complete embodiment, given magnets may slowly lose directional strength over time, additional magnet force output may be targeted to maximize longevity, and magnets may be longer than necessary, so that when magnetization degrades, the magnet structures can simply be further engaged to produce the same output.

Permanent Neodymium magnets are used, which per square inch (645 square millimeters), may weigh around 0.3 pounds (0.13 kilograms), and may be of high grade type N52 which may produce around 20 pounds (9 kilograms) of repulsive force when at a half an inch (13 millimeters) distance opposing a magnet with the same specifications, however given that the magnets may be on average engaged based on distance at about half strength as they rotate, an average of 10 pounds (4.5 kilograms) of repulsive force may be assumed.  The amount of force during engagement may be better approximated at the time magnets are obtained by securing one magnet on a scale, and placing an opposing magnet in a position representative of where it will be held in the magnet structure, and reading the weight, less the weight of the magnet alone on the scale.  In order to select magnets with the highest field strength retention over time, pairs of magnets from different manufacturers may be measured for repellant force using the previously described scale method, then the pairs of magnets may be clamped together and held in place for an extended period of time, and then unclamped, and the repellant force again measured to select the magnets that have best retained their field strength.

To determine the number of magnets to use, it may be the case that the greater the number of magnets used in the rotatable magnet structure, per unit of area, with a corresponding number in the rotationally fixed magnet structure, the smoother the magnetic repulsion, while also recognizing the greater the number the greater the design and assembly complexity, and that commodity magnets may only be readily available in certain sizes.  In some embodiments, to approximate the number of magnets that may be in the rotationally fixed magnet structure, the width of the face of the magnet, as it sits within the circumference of the magnet structure, plus the width of the magnetic shielding, may be divided by the circumference of the rotationally fixed magnet structure interior.  the design as it's built in CAD (Computer Aided Design) software may determine the exact number of magnets, ensuring angling and insulation so that the magnets do not providing repellent force on approach that prevents the inner magnet structure from effectively immediately spinning upon engagement with the outer magnet structure, or the rotating magnet structure may need to be provided initial rotational force.  5 magnets are held in the rotatable magnet structure, and a compliment of 12 magnets are held in the rotationally fixed magnet structure, where the inner magnet count multiplied by the repellent force of an inner structure magnet against an outer structure magnet, may be used for calculating the output.

To implement a generator, in reference to FIG. 1, 10,000 watt generator 1300 is obtained that may produce optimal output at 1800 revolutions per minute at 13.3 horsepower, which requires force of 38.8 pounds (18 kilograms) ((13.3 horsepower = n pounds of force * 1,800 axle revolutions per minute)/5252 horsepower constant).  In some embodiments, which may include one complete embodiment, a generator is selected that outputs the volts, amperes, and hertz of the desired final output for the relevant application, with a converter utilized to power internal embodiment components.  In some embodiments, to approximately calculate the force required by the magnets to power the generator, or where an existing generator is to be powered by the embodiment, for example, in the place of a wind or water turbine, magnets may be selected that correspond to the force required to power such generator, which may at the time of disclosure be around 1.33 horsepower per 1,000 watts.  5 magnets in the rotatable magnet holder powering the output, with a complimentary 12 magnets in the rotationally fixed magnet holder, where each magnet segment of dimensions 1 inch (25 millimeters) width by 1 inch (25 millimeters) height by 1 inch (25 millimeters) length may provide around 10 pounds (4.5 kilograms) of continuous rotational force, for around 50 pounds (23 kilograms) of rotational force, with the exact engagement of the inner and outer magnet structures to be determined at the time of unit use, to produce stable optimal output by the generator.  In some embodiments, the length of the magnets used in the embodiment may be extended to any length necessary to provide the required and or desired force.  when implementing only a generator, the magnets may be of 1 inch (25 millimeters) height by 1 inch (25 millimeters) width by 5 inches (127 millimeters) in length, to produce 250 pounds (113 kilograms) of rotational force to power the generator, with the engagement of the magnets limited to that required to power the generator at optimal speed, which as the magnets degrade in force over time, structured may be further engaged to maintain ideal force and revolutions per minute.  In some embodiments, if smaller magnets are inserted in sequence, if there is any repulsive force between the magnets, insulation as later described in this disclosure may be placed between them.  In some embodiments, which may include one complete embodiment, to convert pounds of force to pound-feet of force, for the calculations of horsepower and corresponding components, identical gears may be placed on the axle of each the rotatable magnet structure and the generator, with the gears interconnecting, and with each having a radius of 1 foot.  In some embodiments, to accurately measure the output of the embodiment, a torque gauge may be used to measure pound feet of force, and a tachometer may be used to determine revolutions per minute, or alternatively a dynamometer may be used which measures pound feet of force as well as revolutions per minute, and then horsepower may be calculated as torque multiplied by revolutions per minute with the result divided by the horsepower constant 5252.

When implementing a motor, 5 magnets in the rotatable magnet holder and 12 magnets in the rotationally fixed magnet holder may be used, where the rotatable magnet holder operates inside the rotationally fixed magnet holder, with the 5 rotatable magnet holder magnets at 1 cubic inch (16 cubic centimeters) providing 50 pounds (23 kilograms) of rotational force, the 5 rotatable magnet holder magnets of width 1 inch (25 millimeters), height of 1 inch (25 millimeters), and a total length of 24 inches (610 millimeters), where length may be achieved by a single continuous magnet, or sequential magnets appropriately insulated between each other using insulation in a later described manner if they repel each other at their sides, or in embodiments where additional lengths are used, length may be split between separate embodiments on each the front axle and rear axle.  In some embodiments, the rotationally fixed magnet structure may instead also rotate, in turn rotating a generator axle or providing propulsion, where for example to allow for a generator or wheel to be mounted in place, rotational force may be first provided to a rotating an intermediary to allow for the sliding engagement of the magnet structures.

To approximately calculate the pounds of force to use when implementing the embodiment as a motor, a horsepower may be targeted.  The fastest motor currently available spins at around 100,000 revolutions per minute, and thus given the rotational speed of the unit is limited only by air resistance, when there is no load, an embodiment may be assumed to have a similar rotational rate, however accounting for a load and air resistance, an embodiment may be assumed to provide up to 10,000 revolutions per minute.  To target a horsepower, that of a standard road car may be used, which is 250 horsepower at a maximum of 7,000 revolutions per minute, solving for 250 horsepower requires approximate pounds of force of 333 ((250 = n pounds of force * 7,000 revolutions per minute)/5252 horsepower constant), or 151 kilograms.  Therefore, given the unit uses five magnets on the rotatable structure, providing a total of 50 pounds (23 kilograms) of repulsive force per inch (25 millimeters), and to provide more force than required to compensate for gradual degradation, magnets 13 inches (330 millimeters) in length may be used for 650 pounds (295 kilograms) of force.  This will provide a car with unlimited range and no external fuel requirements.  In embodiments where a tremendous amount of force is required, such as in jet engines, in addition to or in place of extending magnet lengths, a greater number of magnets may be used on the rotatable magnet holder with a corresponding number in the rotationally fixed magnet holder, to achieve effectively any level of horsepower.

Countless variations of the number, size, positioning, spacing, angling, insulation, and type of magnets may be used, which may, along with the quality of the magnets, and the quality of construction of the unit, together determine the method and accuracy of the calculations and the output of the unit.

The magnet structures and magnets may be manufactured as a single continuous component, with magnetic fields instilled throughout the structures to produce a functionally equivalent effect.  In some embodiments, the magnetic fields may be instilled throughout the structures by means which may include using specific materials suitable to create magnets, for example as neodymium, iron, and boron, and using a manufacturing process which may include powder metallurgy, sintered magnet process, rapid solidification, or bonded magnet process.  In some embodiments, for example, sintered magnetic fields may be instilled in the structures by melting raw materials in a furnace, cooling them into ingots, pulverizing them into powder, sintering them into blocks within the structures, heat treating, and appropriately aligning and directing magnetic fields.  In some embodiments, for example, bonded magnet fields may be instilled in the structures by preparing raw materials using melt spinning, cooling the melted raw materials, then pulverizing them into a powder, mixing them with a polymer, compression or injection molding them into the structure, and appropriately aligning and directing magnetic fields.  A limitation of fully integrating the magnetic fields within structures, rather than using individual magnets, is that when the magnetic fields eventually lose adequate directional force, they can't be replaced without replacing the structure.

Step 2: design and produce the rotatable magnet holder and the rotationally fixed magnet holder along with side panels.  in reference to FIG. 1, a rotatable magnet holder 1100 and a rotationally fixed magnet holder 1101 are produced, along with magnet securing side panels 1102 1103, where the structures are designed to secure and support the magnets that were previously acquired.  the rotatable magnet structure is fixed in place except for the ability to rotate by a rotatable axle, while the rotationally fixed magnet structure is mounted by an attached ring to a sliding bar to allow for changing its engagement with the rotatable structure.  In some embodiments, where the outer magnet structure is the rotatable structure, the inner magnet structure may be fixed in place by a static axle, and the outer magnet structure may be connected to a rotatable axle, which may be connected through an axle hole in its reinforced side panel.  In some embodiments, the rotatable magnet structure is on a sliding axle that interconnects with laterally fixed rotatable axles at either end.  In some embodiments, instead of one of the magnet structures sliding, each magnet and any corresponding insulation within one of the magnet structures has its angle facing the opposing rotatable magnet structure, by means which may include hinging the magnet to the structure, and may include connecting all of the hinged magnet structures by a series of adjustable rods so they are all operable as one, with the degree of the rotations controlling the engagement of the rotating magnet structure, where the rotation degree may be controlled manually, or may by be individually controlled by means including linear actuators or hydraulic pistons, or may be collectively controlled by a linear actuator or hydraulic piston, and while such an embodiment has the benefit of reduced space consumption, it has the cost of adding a one or more point(s) of potential mechanical failure.  In some embodiments, when implemented as a jet engine, the rotatable magnet structure may have a traditional jet turbine structure on its inside, or the outer magnet structure may rotate and have a traditional jet turbine structure on its outside.  In some embodiments, magnet structures may be produced that can hold more magnets than are required, with empty space filled by non-magnetic blocks to achieve desired force.  the rotationally fixed magnet holder extends its insulating encasement around the rotatable magnet structure when it's disengaged, to reduce magnetic forces from acting on anything outside the unit.

In reference to FIG. 1, the rotatable magnet holder 1100 holds magnets 1200 1201 1202 1203 1204, and the rotationally fixed magnet holder 1101 holds magnets 1205 1206 1207 1208 1209 1210 1211 1212 1213 1214 1215 1216, with the magnets arranged so that the rotatable and rotationally fixed magnet holders' magnets render repelling forces.  In some embodiments, the magnet holders may be designed to hold, and do hold, smaller magnets in between the larger magnets, which benefit from the same manner of insulation and angling as the larger magnets.  In some embodiments, which may include one complete embodiment, the magnets in the outer magnet holder may be of greater depth than those in the inner magnet holder, to provide greater repulsive force to the rotatable magnet holder without increasing the rotatable magnet holder's weight.

In reference to FIG. 1, to determine the angling of each magnet within the magnet structures, each aligns with the center axle in such a way that each provides the majority of its magnetic field force to one side of the center axle, where one side of the magnet may be aligned with the perimeter of the axle, such that the magnetic force of the magnet, when visualized as a line from magnet edge to axle, just misses the center axle, and furthermore making sure the magnets are not wasting force by pushing directly on the axle, or causing resistance on approach, and are pushing on one side of the axle in a consistent direction, additionally recognizing that magnetic fields are not perfectly linear and curve outward, and adding a compensating adjustment past the previous axle alignment, and any further adjustment past the previous adjustments to limit or eliminate resistance on approach to optimize rotation, where the angling to optimize continuous repulsive force may be later refined in conjunction with insulating materials that further direct the magnetic fields.  In some embodiments, other means of angling and insulating magnets and their corresponding magnetic fields to provide continuous rotational force may be used.

In reference to FIG. 1, the diameter of the inner magnet structure may be roughly two times the magnet diameter along with insulation, plus the width of the axle, plus two times the minimum thickness required at any point, plus the magnet inset, and where the internal diameter of the outer magnet holder may be sized to allow for the opposing angled magnets to be insulated, spaced, and distanced to provide optimized rotational force.

In reference to FIG. 1, the rotatable magnet holder 1100 has a hole through the exact center that snugly fits axle 1006, with one end of axle 1006 passing through bearing 1007 mounted in axle support beam 1008, and the other end of axle 1006 passing through bearing 1009 mounted in support beam 1010.

In reference to FIG. 1, the thickness of the magnet holders is such that when all magnets are fitted and angled, there is not less than adequate thickness at any point in the support structure to support the magnetic forces without deforming.

In reference to FIG. 1, the spacing, angling, and insulation of magnets in the magnet structures, is based on ensuring engagement between the two magnet structures produces rotational force that is immediate, consistent, and continuous, including adequate insulation on the approach side of the magnets that eliminates repulsive force on approach so that the magnet structures will spin immediately when engaged.  In some embodiments, which may include one complete embodiment, to control the non-linear nature of magnetic fields, the magnetic shielding on the approach side of each magnet may cover up to and including around the middle of the magnetic field.  a pair of opposing magnetic fields from the embodiment in FIG. 1 is rotated for clarity and magnified in FIG. 1A to illustrate a rough approximation of directed magnetic field trajectories on the exposed side of the magnets.  the magnets in the opposing magnet structures are insulated, spaced, and angled to optimize rotational consistency.  In some embodiments, which may include one complete embodiment, all magnets, no magnets, or one structures magnets, may be spaced equally.  In some embodiments, which may include one complete embodiment, each magnet in the inner magnet structure or the outer magnet structure is spaced to be engaged at an evenly spaced percent of maximum force.  For example, if there are 5 magnets in the inner structure, they might be spaced with an approximate target of outer magnet structure engagement pattern as a percent of maximum force of 100% 80% 60% 40% 20% or 100% 75% 50% 25% 0%.  In some embodiments, other means may be used to determine the spacing, angling, and insulation of the magnets to provide optimal rotation of the axle.  In some embodiments, the shaped opposing magnetic fields provided for in this disclosure may instead be secured to the underside of a vehicle, and along a track, in corresponding magnetic field holders, with the magnetic fields angled, insulated, and directed in repulsion, to support vehicle propulsion and or lift.

In reference to FIG. 1, the magnets are inset within the magnet structures, where the inset is angled inward to secure each magnet in place, and additionally to adequately limit any potential repulsive forces inhibiting approach, the shielding and inset are of an amount that allows one or both of the opposing magnet structures when engaged to rotate continuously, optimally, and immediately.  the minimum angle of the inset may be around 30 degrees and the length of distance of the inset covering the magnet surface on the non-approach side may be around a tenth of the magnet surface, and on the approach side may cover up to around half of the magnet surface, where the angle of the inset is adjusted to shape the magnetic field to provide optimal rotational force.  In some embodiments, which may include one complete embodiment, the magnet structures' inset size and angle on the non-approach side may be no more than is required to physically hold the magnet in place.   In some embodiments, which may include one complete embodiment, the magnetic insulation may be extended beyond the initial magnetic insulation inset overhang while adjusting angling of insulation to extend in a manner perpendicular to the magnet surface in order to further shape the magnetic field to further reduce resistance on approach and provide optimal rotational force.  In some embodiments, which may include one complete embodiment, the outsides of the magnet structures engagement approach sides have an angled inset to limit repelling forces as the structures move laterally to become initially engaged.  In some embodiments, alternative means of securing the magnets may be used, including magnets with concave sides, with matching magnet holder shapes, where the midpoint of the curve may be of adequate depth to hold the magnets in place, or the magnets having slits matching slit holders on the structures.  In some embodiments, other methods of insulating the magnets may be used.  In some embodiments, other means may be used that adequately secures of the magnets within the magnet structures.  In some embodiments, which may include one complete embodiment, to overcome any initial repulsive forces, and optionally to provide for smoother sustained rotation, 1400 is a motor connected to battery switch 1801 which provides power from battery 1800 to initiate rotation of the rotatable magnet structure.

A weighted momentum wheel may be attached to the rotatable magnet structure, or the rotatable magnet structure holds adequate weight to sustain momentum, and once the desired speed and force of axle rotation has been achieved, the engagement of the magnet structures may be reduced, optimizing magnetic field preservation, while sustaining force and speed.

In reference to FIG. 1, to secure the magnets against lateral slippage, magnet holders are designed to be structurally enclosed except on the magnetic field exposure side and the magnet insertion side, with covers attached to the insertion side of each magnet holder, matching the size and shape of the sides of the magnet holders.  the magnet holder covers are 0.5 inches (13 millimeters) thick and made of the same material as the magnet holders, where magnet holder cover 1102 is attached to rotatable magnet holder 1100 through inner magnet holder with screw holes drilled through both, and secured with screws 1104 1105, and magnet holder cover 1103 is attached to rotationally fixed magnet holder 1101 with screw holes drilled through both and attached with screws 1106 1107.  the magnet holding structures or magnet holder covers, on the engagement approach side of the magnet structures, have the same inset insulation of the magnet holders, to limit repulsive forces on initial engagement.

In reference to FIG. 1, the magnet holders and magnet holder covers may be made out of a strong non-magnetic material that may also provide magnetic field shielding, and or redirection, and or absorption. a non-magnetic metal may be used such as Aluminum, which may be in the form of high strength Aluminum 7075, which has a yield strength of around 20,000 pounds (9,070 kilograms) of pressure per square inch (645 square millimeters).  In some embodiments, which may include one complete embodiment, non-metal 3D printed filament may be used, for example polythermide, where such filaments, at the time of disclosure, may have rated strengths between 4,700 pounds (2130 kilograms) and 16,500 pounds (7,480 kilograms) of pressure per square inch (645 square millimeters), but may diminish in strength under extreme environmental conditions.  In some embodiments, which may include one complete embodiment, MuMetal is to be used, which is defined by United States Military Specification 1441C, as primarily Nickel with a yield rating of up 44,000 pounds (19,960 kilograms) of pressure per square inch (645 square millimeters).  In some embodiments, titanium may be used, if it is adequately non-magnetic, since it is stronger than high grade steel but may currently be around eight times more expensive.  In some embodiments, which may include one complete embodiment, to reduce the weight of the magnet structures, hollow areas may be left to the extent they do not detract from structural resilience.  In some embodiments, a material with magnetic properties such as steel may be used, with magnetic insulation added in all areas required to avoid or adequately reduce interaction with magnets.  one or more layers of magnetic field shielding material is added around the magnets either directly or by being placed in magnet holder compartments, to shape the magnetic field in the previously explained manner, by limiting or preventing magnetic fields from emanating in undesired directions.  If no additional magnetic insulation is used, the magnet holders may be of a material and thickness at all points that adequately shapes magnetic fields.  In some embodiments, because magnetic fields may saturate materials and those materials diminish in insulation effectiveness, multiple materials may be layered within the magnet holding compartments to limit saturation.  in reference to FIG. 1A, the magnets are enclosed by sheets 0.04 inches (0.1 millimeters) thick from the magnet outward of each iron + iron + tin + stainless steel + tin + aluminum, a layering combination that has been found to reduce external emission of permanent magnet fields by more than 90%, with additional layers added as needed until such shielding is adequate. the pattern to bend the insulation materials resembles that in FIG. 2, where the insulation materials may be formed using standard sheet metal fabrication tools, where insulation is provided by magnet bottom insulation 2000, magnet approach side insulation 2001, magnet approach side angled insulation 2002, magnet non-approach side insulation 2003, magnet non-approach side angled insulation 2004, magnet structure non-engagement side insulation 2005, magnet structure engagement side insulation 2006, magnet structure engagement side angled insulation 2007, and where each layer beyond the first will need to be appropriately extended to fit around the thickness of the previous layers.  In some embodiments, any other type, thickness, pattern, and arrangement of insulation materials may be used that direct the magnetic fields in such a way that supports continuous rotation of either or both magnet holders.  In some embodiments, which may include one complete embodiment, the insulation materials may only be on the approach sides of the magnets or magnetic fields.  In some embodiments, any material or materials of any thickness may be used that allow the magnets or magnetic fields to provide optimal rotational force.  In some embodiments, where there is residual magnetic resistance, the magnets may be inserted into the holders with power tools or inserted in smaller segments.

In some embodiments, which may include one complete embodiment, after having accounted for these details, specifications, and obtained components, molds consisting of an appropriate material may be made to cast the required components.  The molds may be manually etched, or may be setup in CAD (Computer Aided Design) files, to then be processed by a CNC (Computer Numerical Control) machine, to etch each mold.  While there are many versions of CNC machines, for many, the design process may allow for each part to be designed in a CAD program, which may export the design to the vendor neutral Initial Graphics Exchange Specification (IGES) format, developed by the United States Air Force for parts manufacturing, and may have the CNC machine's software convert the designs to G-Code instructions, which may control the movement of the CNC machine tools.  The selected metal may then be melted and poured into the graphite molds.  the components including the magnet holders may be 3D printed.

In some embodiments, which may include one complete embodiment, in reference to FIG. 1, because there are so many possible matches of commodity materials, components, and manufacturers, the best way to determine optimal output in practice may be for the primary design to be adjusted with varying spacing, angling, and insulation, with magnet holders created for each variation, and several different materials used, to determine which design provides optimal output force and rotational consistency with the purchased magnets and their corresponding magnetic fields.  In some embodiments, which may include one complete embodiment, a gauss meter and a magnetic field visualizer are used to ensure the magnetic field is being insulated and shaped in an optimized manner, with corresponding adjustments made to the design and manufacture of corresponding components including the magnet holders and insulating materials.

In some embodiments, designs may be miniaturized, and produced using molds or 3D printing, to produce portable power units for embedding in portable consumer electronics such as phone and laptops, or to fit inside of the casing of standard batteries such as A, AA, AAA, C, D, or a watch batteries.  If such unit sizes don't allow for full power needs to be met, embodiments can at least allow for self-recharging batteries.

Step 3: in some embodiments, which may include one complete embodiment, optionally add an electric field around the magnets.  In some embodiments, it may be desirable to wind uninsulated electrical wire around each magnet, and provide it with an electrical charge, to increase, and or maintain, and or restore magnetic directional force, where additional space may be created in the magnet holder to accommodate the wire, and an additional coating of a non-conductive material may need to be applied to the magnet holders' insulation or compartments to prevent the wires from sending electricity through the magnet holders, and the wiring is provided electricity from an attached generator or a separate power source.  This may be beneficial in situations where the magnets must maintain directional force forever, or where extraordinarily high output is required, using minimal space and weight, such as in engines for jets or space vehicles while in atmosphere.

Step 4: insert magnets in rotatable and rotationally fixed magnet holders and secure with side magnet holder covers.  in reference to FIG. 1, the previously purchased and prepared magnets are each placed into each magnet holder's magnet compartments.  in reference to FIG. 1, rotatable magnet holder 1100 receives 5 magnets 1200 1201 1202 1203 1204, and rotationally fixed magnet holder 1101 receives 12 magnets 1205 1206 1207 1208 1209 1210 1211 1212 1213 1214, with the inner and outer magnet holder magnets inserted and aligned to be magnetically repulsive, with the inner and outer magnet holder covers screwed on, where magnet holder cover 1103 is attached to rotatable magnet holder 1100 with screws 1104 1105 through threaded holes drilled through each, and magnet holder cover 1103 is attached to rotationally fixed magnet holder 1101 with screws 1106 1107 through threaded holes drilled through each.  In some embodiments, the magnet holder covers may be secured by alternative means, including being bolted or welded in place.

Step 5: build the support structure of the unit.  in reference to FIG. 1, a support structure holds the axles that connect to the rotatable magnet structure, supports the sliding rotationally fixed magnet holder, and the remaining components, including a generator if implemented, where the support structure components are connected by means which may include welding.  In some embodiments, which may include one complete embodiment, the support structure may be 3D printed or cast as a single component, which may additionally be an extension of the outer magnet holder 1101.  in reference to FIG. 1, beams 1000 1001 1002 1003 are secured in a rectangle to form the base, with beam 1004 running through the center of the structure resting on beams 1000 and 1002 that has connected to it axle holders beams 1005 1006 with those beams having holes drilled in them to support bearings 1007 1009, through which the axle rotates.  In some embodiments, which may include one complete embodiment, where a generator is used, in reference to FIG. 1, beam 1011 is attached to support beam 1002.

Step 6: connect the rotatable magnet holder to its axle.  in reference to FIG. 1, axle 1006 is inserted through rotatable magnet holder 1100 and welded into place, and in order to transfer force from the rotatable magnet holder as it rotates, rotatable magnet holder axle 1006 is slipped through its support beams 1005 1006 on either side which contain appropriately sized holes that may include a bearing, and rotatable magnet holder axle 1006 is coupled by means which may include welding to the axle of generator 1300, and or wheel or jet turbine 1400, and where to control the engagement of the rotatable and rotationally fixed magnet structures, rotationally fixed magnet holder 1100 has at its base rectangular ring 1012 around support beam 1004, which allows it to slide back and forth along the beam, utilizing handle 1013, to engage and disengage rotatable magnet holder 1101. In some embodiments, which may include one complete embodiment, axle 1006 is cast or 3D printed as an extension of magnet holder 1100, and axle support structures are cast or 3d printed as a continuous part of the support structure.  The force and speed of the rotation may be primarily determined by the extent to which the magnet holders surround each other and the resistance of connected components.  In some embodiments, the rotatable magnet holder axle may or may not be connected to additional axles or gears, as required by the application.  In some embodiments, the rotatable magnet structure slides in and out of the rotationally fixed magnet structure, where the sliding axle of the rotatable magnet structure interconnects with fixed axles connected to the generator or the motor output axle.

An engagement lever may be of the same material as the magnet structures moves the rotatable magnet structure 1100 in and out of a rotationally fixed magnet structure 1101 by connecting to and moving rotatable magnet structure axle 1006, where engagement lever 1014 holds onto a space on the axle 1006 between two extended axle perimeter extension rings, to move the axle without changing its speed, and is able to move back and forth.

Step 7: connect rotatable magnet structure axle to the generator and or allow it to function as a motor axle.  In some embodiments, including one complete embodiment when a generator is implemented, in reference to FIG. 1, generator 1300 is attached to the support structure beam 1011, by means which may include bolting or welding, with the axle of generator 1300 coupled to rotatable magnet structure axle 1006, by means which may include welding, to be able to receive rotational force from the axle connected to the rotating rotatable magnet structure, with the generator being of sufficient distance from the magnet structures to prevent magnetic interference, or may have placed before it additional magnetic shielding of the same type used for the magnet structures.  In some embodiments, including one complete embodiment when implemented as a motor, a rotatable magnet holder axle 1006 functions as a motor axle by connecting, for example, on either side to tires or to a jet turbine blade, to provide propulsion.

Step 8: optionally attach electronically controlled engagement controller.  The percent output of the embodiment is determined primarily by the rotatable magnet structure's percent engagement with the rotationally fixed magnet structure, and the resistance of connected components, with for example, full engagement producing maximum output, and no engagement in effect turning the unit off.

The engagement handle may be pushed and pulled by linear actuator 1600, or a hydraulic piston and pump, which are wired to an external power source, or to a generator and or a battery, with control provided by a computer controlled relay board and software, as described in a later step.

In embodiments where the unit is used as a vehicle motor, there may be a mechanical connection between the gas petal and brake pedal and the engagement handle, thus eliminating the requirement that a vehicle have any electrical power source to control propulsion.  In some embodiments, the engagement handle may be controlled by any number of alternative means.

Step 9: optionally utilize computer control code.  In some embodiments, the engagement handle may be computer controlled, with the engagement handle adjusted through a directly or indirectly motorized device connected the Ethernet controlled relay board controlled by and connected to through a Ethernet crossover cable, a computer included in the unit, that runs custom software on startup, where when operating the engagement handle, the axle rotation is continuously monitored, and the engagement handle adjusted to achieve the desired speed, and for automatically setting and maintaining unit rotation speed when used as a generator and or motor, where the speed of rotation of the axle of the unit may be monitored by means which may include a hall effect sensor is aligned with a magnet on the rotating axle, which counts the time elapsed between magnet detections to calculate revolutions per minute.  In some embodiments, which may include one complete embodiment, in the instance of energy generation, to maintain optimal rotation speed over time, because the magnets may lose force over time, the engagement controller may be adjusted to maintain optimal speed, based on readings of rotations per minute provided to the generator.  In some embodiments, the continuous reading of a digital power consumption meter may be done by computer code to adjust the engagement controller to provide output to match demand, and thus optimize preservation of the units' magnets.    In some embodiments, the computer may be a Raspberry Pi set on startup to run software developed in the Python language from the disclosed description, where the software is installed by connecting to the computer through telnet or secure shell, then at the command prompt typing "nano run.py" and adding and saving the software code, then at the command prompt typing "nano /etc/rc.local" and adding and saving the line "python /$location/run.py", where $location is the path to the directory containing the previously created software file.  The software code to operate the computer connected relay board is disclosed in a separate computer code file in this archive.

When the engagement controller is computer controlled, Ethernet connected relay board 1700 is connected through an Ethernet crossover cable to computer 1709, while linear actuator 1600, which may utilize a reversible brushed direct current motor, in order to allow for its back and forth control, is wired to relays on the relay control board 1700 by wiring motor positive terminal to relay 1701 and relay 1703, and wiring motor negative terminal to relay 1702 and 1704, and hall effect sensor 1710 is aligned with magnet 1711 on the rotating axle 1006, with the hall effect sensor connected to computer 1709.

Step 10: create and attach a protective enclosure.  a protective enclosure 1900 houses all of the components, to protect the operator from the force of the embodiment and protect the electronic components from external elements, where the enclosure is made of sheets of a strong lightweight metal, such as aluminum, or a magnetically insulating material such as previously discussed layers of insulating material, or MuMetal, formed by means which may include fabrication or welding in the shape and dimensions of the support structure, and where the enclosure allows when appropriate, power connector 1800 to be externally accessible to the operator.  In some embodiments, which may include one complete embodiment, the base of the enclosure may be manufactured as a continuous part of the support structure.

Step 11: validate functionality and output of the unit.
